---
layout: post
title: "Go East - Day 1 - 30th/31st January"
---

# Go East - Day 1 - 30th/31st January

My flight (Singapore Airlines SQ 317)t o Singapore leaves London Heathrow Terminal 2 at 10:55. To avoid travelling during the worst of rush hour on the M25 we (Jo is driving me) set off just after 7am. Journey is uneventful and check-in and boarding of the double decker Airbus A380 goes without a hitch. The 12 hour flight passes quicker than I'd expected with 4 films passing most of the time. Even though it's a day time flight from my perspective I manage to get an hour of sleep which is fortunate because from my destinations perspective it's an overnight flight due to the 8 hour time difference and will be landing at 7am!

As I walk up the air bridge from the plane to the platform there's a hint of the oppressive heat that is to occupy my mind for much of the day but it clears once I enter into the air conditioned terminal building. Through the slow immigration checks I grab my bag and head to the MRT (Mass Rapid Transit) station and onto the train into town.  I take the East/West Line in a slightly circuitous route to Outram Park and change onto the North East line and hop one stop to Clarke Quay. The trains are air conditioned, fast, quiet and smooth. And despite it being almost 9am not as busy as I had feared - there are lots of people but none of the crush that the London Underground exhibits at similar times of the day.

On my way in the receptionist/host from my AirBnb booking messages to check I'm on my way as expected. This is a pleasant greeting that gives me confidence in the platform I'm trying for the first time. Upon exiting the MRT onto the street the temperature hits my full on. It's hot (~27°C) and humid (~70%), the worst possible combination. I wrestle my suitcase and heavy rucksack up over a footbridge to cross Eu Tong Sen St / New Bridge Rd; Drag it one block south; Weave it across a busy four lane road without a crossing which is a) fortunately only one way and b) busy with all traffic at a standstill. In these 5 minutes I've travelled probably all of 300m and I'm a mess already. Slow and steady (and with as little baggage as possible) will be the rule for the most part form now on.

I meet the apartment manager of Heritage Apartments (80 Boat Quay) who gives me the amazing news that my room might be read in the next 30 minutes. My expectation had been no access until 3pm (6 hours away) and whilst I could have left my bags with them I'd be unable to change or shower. I wander down the Boat Quay river front and find a Starbucks (I know but it was convenient). I have a coffee in their air conditioned wonderland (it was just a normal Starbuck but anywhere cold is a god send).

A message from the apartment manager brings me back and gets me checked in and into my room. It's a narrow strip of a room but has all the basics in place as well as offering a view out over the river and across to many of the old colonial buildings of Singapore including the parliament and Asian Civilisations museum.

In 30 minutes or so I take a quick shower and pack my simple day rucksack ready to head out into the city to explore. I walk over Elgin Bridge and down the North East side of the Singapore River. The sky is blue with only the occasional high wispy cloud to cover the powerful sun. The river turns to the North East around the Asian Civilisations Museum and reveals the beautiful Fullerton Hotel building; A grant old stone building with towering columns along one side and decorated with many red Chinese lanterns. I cross Cavenagh Bridge, circle the building and return across it.

My wandering now takes me roughly North through Esplanade Park where there are rows of huge rainforest trees with all manor of ferns and other plants growing along their gigantic branches. Curving East I follow a path under the Esplanade Drive which takes me onto the edge of the main bay, looking across at the Marina Bay complex. It's a striking sight regardless of how many pictures you've seen although from this position the actual size of it is somewhat lost on me as I'll discover later.

I pop South across Jubilee Bridge to Merlion Park for more views across the bay before returning and heading West along the front before North to loop aroudn the Esplanade mall and theatre complex. I now head North West through War Memorial Park and Raffles City before getting to the famous Raffles hotel. It's low stature could put it at risk of being overshadowed by the surround architectural monsters but it's not. It's grand white painted exterior and orange roof tiles are beautiful and the network of palm lined courtyards enclosed by the buildings are refreshingly cool when out of the sun.

Whilst I don't really like tourist things I head to the Raffles Long Bar, the birthplace of the Singapore Sling cocktail. After a 15 minutes or so wait I get in and seated at the bar. It's in classic colonial British style wood bar and storage, leather chairs... and peanut shells all over the floor which I hastly start adding to from the hessian bag full of them in front-of me on the bar. I order the standard original sling (S$35, £20), ignoring their crazy 'reserve' version (S$188, $105). I'd not had one before so have little to judge it against but it's got a kick of alcohol, sweet from cordial/juice and best of all it was really cold which I needed after the previous few kilometers walk in 32°C heat.

After taking a long time over my drink I head back towards the hotel through the city. I pass via the striking white towers of St Andrew's Cathedral and it's spacious grassy surroundings and the stunning National Gallery with its massive stone columned frontage before reaching the Asian Ciivilisations Museum.

It's about 2:30pm. By this point I've been up for 24 hours with just a grabbed hour of sleep on the plane. I'm starting to flag but I also know it's too early to turn in. So I head into the Asian Civilisations Museum. Big mistake. It's all lovely pottery, sculptures and artwork. Lovely. But not really keeping me awake. I'm fawning my darn head off. I do make it round but don't give it the time it's probably worth. At the same time it's cool so at least I'm not out in the roasting heat.

After an hour and a half I have a quick coffee before heading onto the hotel for about 5pm. I am exhausted. Both mentally and physically. I'm a sweaty mess so I have a shower before heading to bed with little idea or plan as to whether this is the end of my current day or not; I could awaken tomorrow morning ready for the new day or in 20 minutes.

In the end it's about 1.5 hours of rest. Not much but I'm awake and glad I might get to see a little of Singapore by night.

I walk slowly south to Merlion Park opposite the Marina Bay hotel and as it's about 7:45pm when I arrive I take up position to see one of the nightly light shows. It's a dazzling array of lighting on the hotel and water, with occasional lasers beamed into the sky and water. Staggering scale and crazy to think it happens 2/3 times every night!

Next I wander around the north side of bay. I pas a drum band performing soothing orchestoral songs at Esplanade Outdoor Theatre and The F1 track straight at The Float has been turned into a parade ground for a carnival of sorts. All manor of costumed children wandering along with crowds cheering them on. Finally it's south across the dramatic Helix Bridge to the Marina Bay complex. The bridge is a walkway through a pair of entwined twisted metal beams covered in beaming red lights. Quite a sight.

As I leave the bridge I enter the Shoppes @ Marina Bay shopping mall and my breath is taken away by the scale of it. I quite literally cannot believe what I'm seeing. It's gigantic. So high. So much space in the centre to look down and see to the ant like people below. It makes me very weak at the knees.

I climb higher via a gigantic escalator and onto the roof of the complex where I can look North across the bay to the Merlion Park and the city from which started. The walkway turns south east and heads across and through the Marina Bay Hotel's central tower before exiting towards the Gardens By the Bay. Immediately you can see the towering and dazzling metal and light structures of the ,trees, of the Supertree Grove which are my target destination for the light show.

The walkway crosses a lake covered in inflatable light up eggs, each about 2-4 meters high. There are eairy musical tones emminating in the area and the eggs change colour in waves that wash across the area. It's beguiling and beautiful.

Finally I reach the Supertree Grove just after the music and light show has started. I wander between the trees staring up at the lights changing in waves and flashes and bursts filling my eyes with so much visual candy.. The loud music and light display is so evocative and in my sleep deprived state its completely overwhelming to me. I burst into tears or joy. Never has anything struck me like this. After an exceptionally long day it's easily one of the most phenomenal things I've ever seen - and almost certainly the most phenomenal man made things.

After the show there's some extras due to it being Lunar New Year.  Some Chinese dancers and a dragon dance troop put on a great display to entertain the crowd.

In the dark I find my way back to 'egg lake' and spend 20 minutes or so walking around and absorbing it before finally heading  back to the walkway to leave via the route on which i arrived. On the way back to the hotel I stop at Makansutra Gluttons Bay (a hawkers food market) to grab something to eat. A chicken breast kebab, garlic naan and Tiger beer fill me up. In the seating of the food market, surrounded by others eating and drinking I reflect on an incredible first day off this 47 day adventure.
