---
title: "Go East - Day 2 - Little India and Orchard Road"
tags: [blog, travel, go east]
---

With my apartment being on the front of Boat Quay there's a low background of music and merriment into the early hours which kept me awake even in my extreme exhaustion. I eventually passed out around 1am. As such I awake today late for me around 9:30am. I feel mostly refreshed for the day ahead although I'll admit that my legs are already feeling a little stiff and weary from trekking round town; I must try to curb my wandering tendencies a little: slow down and use the MRT where possible to get out of the heat. The one mercy is that I haven't to have burnt to a crisp in the sun (yet).

My first target of the day is the city's Little India. I make my way there using the MRT from Clarke Quay on the North East line. Upon exiting the station the atmosphere of the  area is immediately different. For one there are many fewer tall skyscrapers in close proximity and the surrounding roads are lined by the produce stuffed stalls of shop fronts selling all manor of fruits, vegetables, flower garlands and spices. It's an explosion of colour.

I make my way a short distance down Buffalo Road and into the Tekka Centre, a bustling wet market rammed with stalls. It's laid out like a city in it's own right. With the fish region, the meat district, fruit and veg village. The smells are powerful - mostly from the fish. The isles between the stalls are crowded people going in all directions. The air full of the sounds of busy trading as well as the continual thwack of cleavers hitting blocks and slicing though bones as meat is portioned and fish de-headed.

In the back of the market is a Hawker centre with all manor of food stalls. Having not eaten yet I'm eager to find something and avoid ending up eating something too western due to my culturally standardised idea of breakfast. But at the same time noodles and rice don't really appeal to me at this time of day. I settle on the stall of an Indian pair selling Prata (flat bread) fried on a hot plate with eggs cooked inside. Their work is skilful - slapping the uncooked bread dough onto the hot plate and cracking eggs in before it's fully cooked, folding up and flipping to fry off the outside of the dough. It's served with a mild meaty curry sauce. It is perfect. Eggy to suit my western breakfast ideals and spicy to fit my eastern location.

After wolfing it down I head out of the market and down a narrow alley to a spot marked on my guide book - without paying much attention to what the book says is there. I emerge into another street and alongside the mostly brightly painted of buildings. I initially think it's some sort of temple but it's not and instead a 2 story villa built in 1900, Tan Teng Niah. Stripes of colour assault the eyes and the lavishly painted shutters make it looks like something a toy company might produce.

Round the corner I find the Hindu temple I was expecting earlier, Sri Veeramakaliamman Temple (try saying that quickly - or slowly). It's roof is an amazing steep tall peak adorned with all manor of colourful deity statues. Many people, tourists and worshipers are coming and going. Making the street in front a crowded space.

I wander south west through the remainder of Little India with many small shops lining the streets. Probably a quarter of them sell some form of mobile phone accessories (wonder what they sold before 2005?) and the rest are clothes, food and spices. The sweet treats look delightfully colourful.

South of Jin Beasar road the shops stop and fewer buildings crowd the pavements. Two blocks of grassy areas, car parks and a bus station separate Little India from Kampong Glam, the predominantly Islamic area of the city. I loop around the outside of the Masjid Sultan mosque: a beautiful complex of white stone buildings with large bulbous golden tops that shine in the bright sunlight. I sit under the shade for a while  in the gardens of the Malay Heritage Centre. It's a ideal place to cool down a little, out of the sun and with the sound of the water from their fountains; as well as the clack of seed pods falling from the trees above onto the tiles around me.

I wend my way west through roads of shops selling quirky gift merchandise with themes from Pokémon, comic characters, Hello Kitty, Mario and more. The brightly painted and narrow streets are attractive and bustling with visitors. I reach the Burgis MRT stop and take the East West line west and change to the North South line to reach Somerset, right in the heart of Singapore's legendary shopping street: Orchard Road. Emerging through the Orchardgateway mall the road is all towers of glass and architectural willy waving worshiping at the alter of chain shopping.

Before absorbing myself in the ways of shopping I cut across the main street and up the gently sloping Emerald Hill Road. Here, mere meters off the glass canyon lie a few streets of old terrace houses. Well maintained and painted in an array of pastel and bright hues these beautiful dwellings stand in stark contrast the modern towers next door. I loop around Emerald Hill and Saunders Road, enjoying the tranquillity of their setting and well maintained front garden spaces.

I emerge back onto Orchard Road and head north. There are a series of massive mall complexes (above and under ground) many connected by tunnels between them so you almost never need to leave the air conditioned sanctuary. Outside of food related outfits it's striking that the chains from the UK's highstreets are all here too. Very few of the brands are different. In Ngee Ann City mall I pickup a small umbrella co counter the threat of thunderstorms in the following day's forecasts.

It is here where I give in to the temptation and try 'tea' for the first time in decades. As a coffee man at heart the explosion of styles of tea has mostly passed me by but here it's clearly massive. Boba (bubble) tea in particular is everywhere. I get a Wintermelon brewed tea with pearls (jelly balls) from the famous Gong Cha chain. It's cold and refreshing. But the pearls are a bit of revelation to me. Sucked up through the fat straw they add texture, something to chew on. This may be the beginning of something great for me.

I end my shopping street expedition in the ION Orchard mall. Probably the towering crown of the complex. 4 floors of labyrinthine halls lines by all manor of stores. I make one purchase: some new trainers. The heat of the day is causing my current (still quite new) pair to pong a little; I feel the need to switch to a new pair when I leave the city of my adventure else be lynched on the flight.

I return to the apartment via the MRT around 3:30pm to shower and relax for a few hours whilst the heat of the day eases off.

As the sun's power fades and it heads towards dusk I leave the apartment and head for the Gardens by the Bay, taking the MRT to the Bayfront station under the Shoppes @ Marina Bay Sands. I wander south into the gardens as darkness falls and reach my initial destination: Satay by the Bay, a hawker food area near the mouth of the bay. I get some mixed satay skewers (chicken, pork and beef), some ketupat (rice dumplings) and a couple of chicken wings. The food is all cooked over open flames with the intoxicating smells filling the area. Whilst the order taking is fast I grow increasing impatient waiting for them to fill the very large number of orders before mine. But then I guess popularity can be a measure of quality and so it turns out. The skewers are tasty. The satay dip nutty and fragrant. The chilli dip has a delightful kick. Wings are charred and juicy. The ketupat mild flavoured but sweet and smooth.

I depart and make my way back to the Supertree Grove to take in the light show again. Unlike the previous night I arrive before the show starts and manage to get a spot on the edge of the concrete raised bed edges around one of the trees. This enables me to lie back and relax to take in the show. It's a different set to the night before and without being so drained it's not quite so emotionally devastating. That said it's still a great spectacle and completely absorbing for it's complete 15 minute duration.

With the light show complete at 9pm I walk back to the Shoppes mall. Most of the high fashion label shops here mean nothing to me although the presence of a Hamleys (smaller and inferior to the London location making it basically an average toy store) and a Ferrari Junior store (I mean what the fuck right?) bring a smile. I grab a cold milk tea with hot brown sugar pearls. It's a great combination. The cold tea combine and contrast nicely with the hot globules of sugar. With my drink I head out to the Spectra light show viewing  spot. This is directly opposite where I'd viewed from the night before and the intended spot for viewing the show.

As I sit on the open air stepped viewing area, with it filling around me, a fireworks display bursts into life to my right behind the much advertised "first floating Louis Vuitton store in the world" waiting for the show to start. It's quite heavily obscured from my location but even still it's a nice time filler and sums up much of what is great about this central bay part of Singapore at night... you never quite know what you're going to stumble upon from one minute to the next.

The Spectra light show itself is much more impressive from this location. The illumination and musically matched lighting of the buildings I watched the night before is behind me and instead I'm focussed on the series of fountains and water sprays on the bay in front of me. Dancing in time to the music and illuminated by lights and lasers it's an impressive display. Even more so when they use walls of water spray to draw pictures. A phoenix swoops across the bay and stars twirl in place against the watery canvas.

As the show ends I head to the Shoppes food court to get an Asian staple that was on my must have list. Chicken rice. Many of the outlets in the food court (or sanitised hawker) are closing but one is still open and selling my target. In the end I get their mixed meat and rice. Roast chicken leg and thigh, pork belly and roasted duck breast with steamed rice. It's lovely as expected. There's something simple and elegant at the same time about this food. Comforting. Like eating a massive hug.

Back on the MRT and to the apartment. The river lights look resplendent reflecting into the rippling black river waters. The Elgin bridge in particular, lit in purples illuminates the water underneath it creating a dazzling scene.
