---
title: "Go East - Day 3 - Chinatown to Safari"
tags: [blog, travel, go east]
---

Sleep is a struggle. Up until last night I've always thought of jet lag as being tired from lacking sleep due to flying through time zones. It's something I've never really suffered from badly. Until now. After being unable to get to sleep until around 5am this morning (i.e. 9pm UK time) I now get it. Your body is drained from a day of walking. Your mind is tired from amazing new sights and sounds. But for some reason you lie there staring at the ceiling. I guess at least it's a great time to talk to friends in the UK who are of course still up and about.

As such I don't get out until about 10am, a little later than I'd have liked. It's just a short one hop trip on the North East MRT line to Chinatown where I disembark into the heat and shop lined streets. I quickly cut away from the tourist lined streets into the Chinatown Wet Market. It's much the same as the one in Little India although little more roomy and not quite as busy (although maybe the later is the result of the former).

When I merge back onto the street just 20 minutes later they're drenched and a little rain is still falling. I stop and wait for it to pass for a few minutes until I remember I bought an umbrella for just this eventuality the day before. Out it comes and on I trot.

I wind my way south east through the streets stopping briefly to take in the exteriors of the Sri Mariammam Hindu Temple and Buddha Tooth Relic Temple. Both ornately decorated structures and striking additions to the street front. Up Ann Siang Road I reach Ann Siang Hill Park; a small green oasis in the middle of the streets lined by terrace houses. From this slight rise it's possible to see over the next few roads of houses south to the central business district where the skyline suddenly morphs from 2/3 story stone terraces to towering scrapers of metal, and glass.

I curve my route more easterly and head back towards the river and Boat Quay through the Central Business District. As per most business centres of this nature it's like the set of some post-apocalyptic movie because it's a Sunday. Everything is closed and the streets are quiet. Much nice like this I think (and given that I'm in month 4 of a break from work it's nice not to be reminded what working people look like).

As I reach the water's edge my body has too demands: food and cooling down. So, first target is Burger+, a Korean burger chain at Clarke Quay so just a short walk up river. It's frustrating that this takes me passed my apartment and the cooling shower but it will have to wait. There's lots I want to try on the menu but I need to avoid my eyes being too much larger than my stomach. I settle on Bulgogi burger, garlic and cheese fries and honey sauced chicken wings and drumsticks. When it arrives it's definitely a bit too much food but I'd heard both the burgers and chicken were good and I don't expect to have time to make another visit before I leave. The burger is brilliant. Slightly pink and juicy. Sautéed onions still have a little crunch and are sweet and sharp. The bulgogi sauce is rich and mouth watering. Stuffed into a gorgeous soft baked on premises potato bun. Fries don't pull any punches with the garlic. Fantastic. But, with all that said it's the chicken I could die for. There are no words for how crispy the coating is. It's not tough but can stand up to anything but a proper bite. The glaze is rich. Maybe a touch too rich and lacking a little heat but stunning none the less.

I leave the restaurant around 1pm full and head back to the apartment for a break.

After an hour or so of down time I need to head out due to a Pokémon Go event running from 2-5pm. By choice I'd liked to avoid being out in these hours due to the highest temperatures but ah well, such are the demands of the games we play. I use the time to loop south through the business district to the bay front, past Merlion park and over Jubilee bridge to Esplanade enterainment complex. I grab a cold drink and sit for 10 minutes to cool off before heading back via Esplanade Park and east bank of the river. I loop through Clarke Quay and get a refreshing Cold Strawberry Foam Coffee from LiHO before heading to the apartment. For reference the Pokemon Go playing was worth it as I collected some of the newly released Minccino including 4 shinys (I know future me is eye rolling at this and everyone else is groaning).

For the evening I settle on heading to the Night Safari. It's a ways out of town and I'm always wary of these type of more organised attractions because they have such scope for over charging and under delivering - and guide books seem to lap them up and give them top billing in a way that seems to conflict with other sections where they look for the "real <insert place here>". Internal (and now written) rant over I make the hour journey north to the attraction, taking the North South MRT line out of the city and changing to a dedicated shuttle bus at Khatib. The later parts of the MRT ride are above ground and this, as well as the bus ride, give me a good view of a bit more of the non-central parts of Singapore. That's not to say it's really rural at all, just less built up.

In a nice surprise the Night Safari tickets are 10% due to my Singapore Airlines flight but still cost S$51 (£28). Once into the park I make straight to the 'tram' that travels around the park to show you the animals. The tram is really an electric open sided series of carriages with about 20 rows of seats each holding 4 people. I get an end seat and there are only 3 in our row. As we trundle around the park a guide talks us through what we're seeing. As with all seated experiences there's the usual frustration that half the things are on the other side where whilst you can see, it's not as well. And when I say "half" it probably is but never feels like it. I am not good at stopping my mind wondering why the lion was on the other side and not my side. Taking photos is basically a non-started because it really is pretty dark and the tram never really stops to let you properly focus or take a longer exposure shot. The 40 minute ride doesn't out stay its welcome and would probably be improved immensely by increasing to an hour and stopping for a minute or two in each enclosure.

For all those niggles and negatives it's a nice experience. The pens of the animals feel basically non-existent because instead of the usual glass (with the exception of the tiger) there is either no barrier so deer could wander right up to you or large pits that you just don't really see in the dark. This makes it feel the closest to being on safari you can probably get without actually going on safari (which is a thousand times better - and more expensive). The lions, elephants and tiger are particular stand outs.

One thought I couldn't put out of my  mind throughout the ride was one of this feeling a bit inspired by Jurassic Park. The guided tour through different habitats. The gates and cattle grids separating enclosures. The raptor tiger in it's dedicated high strength glass cage. Fortunately this experience offers more views of the intended animals than the film showed it's guests getting (only one no-show) and I didn't get attacked by a T-Rex or any velociraptors.

With the ride complete there's the option of an animal show (mostly aimed at kids) or some short walking routes. But my legs are heavy and the tram ride has shown me the routes won't be flat. So I just accept the quick fun for a high price and head back to town.

I'm a little peckish as I get back into town but it's late on a Sunday night and most establishments are closed (unless I really want to sit down and eat at 10:30pm and I don't tonight). So it's straight to bed (via the shower) without any dinner.
